# Custom Application Properties

In this lesson we'll cover Spring Boot and custom application properties. So you have a problem. You need your app to be configurable, no hard coding of values and you also need to be able to read app configuration from a properties file. So the solution is to make use of an app properties file. So by default, Spring Boot will actually read information from a standards properties file. And you can actually define any custom properties in this file. 

Your Spring Boot app can access these properties by simply using the `@Value` annotation. Spring Boot will automatically load this `application.properties` file and make it available. 

## Development Process

All right, so let's look at the development process. So the first thing we're gonna do is define custom properties in our `application.properties` file. And then we'll actually inject those properties into our Spring Boot application using the `@Value` annotation. 

Okay, so let's start with step one of defining custom application properties. We'll make use of that standard Spring Boot file name, `application.properties` and we'll define our own custom properties. 

So for this example I'll define a `coach.name` = Mickey Mouse and `team.name` = The Mouse Club. And again, remember, you can use any custom property names in this given file, and there's also no limit on the number of properties you can add. You can add as many properties here as you'd like. 

All right, so let's look at step two of injecting the properties into our Spring Boot application. And what we'll do is we'll make use of that rest controller from the previous lessons. So we had our `FunRestController`, and what we'll do is we'll actually inject the properties for `coachName` and also `teamName`. So what I'll do here is I'll make use of that `@value` annotation and I'll inject the property `coach.name` and I'll assign it to the field, `public String coachName`. And remember, this is actually injected from the actual properties file, `application.properties`. It'll get that actual property name, take the value, and inject it for the given field. 

And then I just repeat the process here for `teamName`. I use:

```application.properties
@Value("${team.name}")
public String teamName;
```

And again, it'll actually pull the information from the properties file `team.name`, give the value here, assign it to our field `teamName`, and that's basically it. 

So the nice thing to notice here is that there's no additional coding or configuration required. Spring Boot will automatically load that `application.properties` file, make it available to your application and you can access those values by using the `@Value` annotation. It makes it really, really easy to make use of custom application properties in your application. 

So in the next section we'll dive into coding.
