# Application Properties

In this lesson, we'll cover Spring Boot properties. Spring Boot can be configured in the `application.properties` file. So, some of the properties you can set is that you can actually set up the **actual server port**, **context path**, **actuator endpoints**, **security settings**, and so on. And in fact, Spring Boot has over 1000 properties.

Don't let those +1000 properties overwhelm you or scare you. The properties are roughly grouped into the following categories:
 
  + Core
  + Web
  + Security
  + Data
  + Actuator
  + Integration
  + DevTools, and 
  + Testing. 

So that's kind of the logical grouping of those different properties that are out there. And what we'll do here is we'll actually review some of the properties just so you can see how they're used, become accustomed to them and so on. 

## Core

Okay, so let's start with the **core** properties. So again, in this `application.properties` file, we can set up the logging levels and set up different severity mappings for those given packages or for those given projects. 

So for example, if you'd like to set up the logging level for the `org.springframework`, set it to `DEBUG`. You could set `org.hibernate` to `TRACE` levels and you can also set `com.opf` to `INFO` level. 

So, basically you're setting these logging levels based on the actual package name, and this applies to all sub-packages for those given projects or package names. And then as far as the different logging levels that are out there, you can set `TRACE`, `DEBUG`, `INFO`, `WARN`, `ERROR`, `FATAL`, and `OFF`. 

You could also have the data sent to a given specific log file as far as output, so instead of the regular console, you can give the file of `my-crazy-stuff.log` and all the information will be stored in that given log file. 

Now if you'd like to get more details on Spring Boot logging, just access the link here on the page, `luv2code.com/spring-boot-logging`, it'll give you the official Spring Boot documentation for actually performing all the different logging configurations and so on. 

## Web

Next, we can take a look at some of the web properties. 

So again, in this `application.properties` file, we can actually set up the actual port that the server will listen on. So by default, the port is `8080`, but you may want change it to listen on a different port here:

```application.properties
server.port = 7070
```

We can also change the **context path** of the application, so the actual default is just a forward slash, but here we'll give an actual context path of `/my-silly-app`, so then that means that when you actually access your application in the web browser, we give `localhost:7070/my-silly-app`. 

We can also set another property here, like the default **HTTP session timeout**, I set that to `15m`, that's basically **15 minutes**, so `m` is short for **minutes**. 

## Actuator

In Spring Boot application properties file, the commonly used prefix that precedes actuator properties is: `management.endpoints.web.exposure...`. 
 
So you can set up the endpoints to *include*; we can give the endpoints by name, or by wildcards. I'll have:

```application.properties
management.endpoints.web.exposure.include = *
```

We can also give endpoints to exclude by the name or wildcards. So here I'll say: 

```application.properties
management.endpoints.web.exposure.exclude = beans,mapping
```

Also, in Spring Boot application properties file, the commonly used prefix to enable actuator properties is: `management.health.enabled=true`. `health` is used here. 

```application.properties
management.info.enabled=true
```

We can also set up the base path for the **actuator endpoints**. So the actual default is `/actuator`, so when we access it via our web, we say: `localhost:7070/actuator/health`. And you can easily change that value to anything you'd like for your actual **Actuator endpoints**. 

## Security

And then you can set up some **Security properties** here. 

In Spring Boot application properties file, the commonly used prefix that precedes security properties is: `spring.security`. 

So, we saw earlier how we could secure the rest endpoints for the Spring Boot Actuator making use of the default username. So here we can actually provide a different default username. We say `user.name=admin`, and we can also set up a default password, so instead of using that generated password by Spring Boot, we can give the `user.password=topsecret`. 

And remember, earlier I also mentioned that you can easily customize this to make use of our normal Spring Security work, our Spring Security configuration where you can basically hook in databases, roles, encrypted passwords, and so on, just using the same information that we did earlier in the course for setting up custom Spring Security. 

## Data

And also Spring Boot has support for some data properties here. 

So in your `application.properties` file, we can go ahead and set up, like, the JDBC URL. So this `datasource.url=jdbc:mysql`, localhost ecommerce. 

We can set up the username of scott and the password of tiger. And then we'll actually get into more of this later when we move into Spring Boot for data access, Spring Boot data, and all that good stuff. 

And we'll cover more of this, we'll actually have lessons that cover how to use the data properties. 

And again, just as a reminder, a list of the Common Spring Boot properties are available here at the link, `luv2code.com/spring-boot-props`.

All right, so now with our development process, what we're gonna do in the next section here is we'll actually modify Spring Boot, we'll configure the server port to listen on a different port and then we'll also configure the application context path. And so we'll cover this in the next section. We'll do it hands on, just so you see how to make some modifications here to Spring Boot, and set up the configuration.
