# Overview

Dependency injection makes use of the **dependency inversion principle**. *That's where the client delegates to another object the responsibility of providing its dependencies*. Now, let's look at an example of this using a car factory.

Now remember here with the spring container, the spring container kind of works as the object factory. So my application can talk to the spring container, "Hey, give me a `Coach` object". This `Coach` object may have additional dependencies or additional helpers. So imagine you have a head coach. The head coach may have a staff of: assistant coaches, physical trainers, a medical staff, and so on. So I can say, "Hey give me everything that I need to make use of this given coach", and then they'll give it to me, all put together, ready to go out of the box.

So that's dependency injection here using the spring container. Now, just as a refresher here, remember with the spring container here, it has primary functions:

  + So the one function is creating and manage the objects. That's the inversion of control.
  + And then also injecting the objects dependencies using dependency injection.

Those are the two key functions there. Now let's look at a demo example here. So I have this coach that provides daily workouts and then we have this demo controller that wants to use a coach. Okay? So in this case, the coach is the helper. So this is known as a dependency. And what we'd like to do is inject this dependency into our controller or inject the coach into the given controller. Now, as far as injection types, there are multiple injection types available with Spring. We'll cover the two recommended types of injection. They are: **constructor** injection and **setter** injection.

Now you may wonder, well, which type of injection should I use?

  + **Constructor injection** use this when you have required dependencies, and it's generally recommended by the `spring.io` development team as the first choice.

  + There's also **setter injection** and you can use this when you have optional dependencies. So in this case, if the dependency is not provided, your app can provide reasonable default logic.

## Auto Wiring

For dependency injection, Spring can make use of **auto wiring**. So Spring will look for a class that matches. So it can match by type, either a class or interface and then Spring will inject it automatically. Hence that given dependency is auto wired. 

Now with an auto wiring example here, injecting a coach implementation, Spring will scan for a components or any class that's annotated with the `@Component` annotation and it'll say, "Hey does anyone implement the coach interface? If so, then let's inject them." So in our example, it could say, because the `CricketCoach` is annotated with the `@Component` annotation; Hey there's a cricket coach. Let's go ahead inject this cricket coach as a dependency for this given example.
