# Spring Boot Actuator Overview

In this lesson, we'll cover the Spring Boot Actuator. So, here's the problem. You may have the questions:

  + How can I monitor and manage my application?
  + Also, how can I check the application status?
  + And finally, how can I access some application metrics?

Well, one solution here is by making use of the **Spring Boot Actuator**. So, the Spring Boot Actuator actually exposes endpoints for you to monitor and manage your application. So, you easily get the DevOps functionality out-of-the-box.

You simply add the dependency to your Maven POM file, and then these REST endpoints are automatically added to your application. So, the nice thing about it is that there's no need to write additional code, you get these new REST endpoints for free. 


```xml
	<dependency>
		<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
		<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-actuator</artifactId>
	</dependency>
```

And that'll basically give us support for these metrics and monitoring of our given application. All of the endpoints are prefixed with `/actuator`. 

Now, here are some of the endpoints that we can make use of: 

### **`/health` Endpoint**

  + The health endpoint, or `/health`, checks the status of your application. This is normally used by monitoring apps to see if your application is up or down.
  + The health status is customizable based on your own custom business logic. By default, only `/health` is exposed.

### **`/info` Endpoint**

  + The `/info` endpoint can provide more information about your application, you can actually customize it. To expose `/info`, you need to make an update in the application.properties file. For this property here.
    ```application.properties
    management.endpoints.web.exposure.include = health,info
    management.info.env.enabled = true
    ```
    We're simply giving a comma-delimited list of endpoints to expose. Also, we'll set the property here for `management.info.env.enabled` to true. And once we set these two items up, then this will expose the `/info` endpoint.
  + The endpoint `/info` gives you information about your application. So, the default is that it's actually empty. So, if you access this endpoint, you'll get this empty JSON object, which is nothing. 
  + So, we actually need to customize this `/info` endpoint, and we can do that by updating the application properties with our given information. So, we simply add in some properties in the `src/main/resources/application.properties` file for: 
    ```application.properties
	info.app.name = My Super Cool App
	info.app.description = A crazy and fun app
	info.app.version = 1.0.0
    ```

And that's our actual info for our given `/info` endpoint. Now, anything starting with *info*. as for the property name, then that'll be used by this `/info` endpoint. So, here's a little screenshot here, so I have `actuator/info`: 

### **`/auditevents` Endpoint**

  + The `/auditevents` enpoint gives you a list of the audit events for your application. This can be particularly useful for monitoring and tracking security-related events, such as authentication successes and failures, and other significant actions within your application.

### **`/beans` Endpoint**

  + `/beans` will give you a list of all beans that are registered in the Spring application context. 

### **`mappings` Endpoint**

  + `/mappings` will give you a list of all request mappings for your given application. 

So, there's actually 10+ actuator endpoints that are available.

## Exposing Endpoints

All right. Now, by default only the `/health` endpoints are exposed. If you want to expose all of the actuator endpoints over the web, then you simply make use of the wildcard. We can also expose individual endpoints with a comma-delimited list, like before. 


```application.properties
# Use wildcard "*" to expose all endpoints
# Can also expose individual endpoints using comma-delimited list
management.endpoints.web.exposure.include = *
```

So this is pretty cool, but, and hold on here, you're probably wondering, what about security? Because you really don't want to expose all of this information to anyone on the web. We'll cover security in some of the later lessons. So, we'll add security, and we'll lock down these Spring Boot Actuator endpoints only to authorized users who have to log in with the user ID and password.
