# Actuator Security

So previously I showed you how to expose all the different Spring Boot Actuator endpoints. Well, what about security? We can add the `spring-boot-starter-security` dependency to our Maven project and secure our endpoints. The `/health` will still be available but I'll show you how we can actually disable those and we'll cover that in this lesson. 

## Secured Endpoints

Spring Security will prompt for a login and the user will have to give their **username** and **password**. Now, the **default username** is user and then also for the **password**, you have to look at the actual console to figure out what the default password is. So you'll see this entry at the console logs. So that's one approach. 

## Spring Security Configuration

To configure security, you're going to add support for **spring security**.

```xml
<dependencies>
	<!-- ... other dependency elements ... -->
	<dependency>
		<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
		<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-security</artifactId>
	</dependency>
</dependencies>
```

You can override those defaults and give your own username and password? In the `application.properties` file you can say:

```application.properties
## Spring Security configuration for temporary use
spring.security.user.name=opf
spring.security.user.password=opf
```

So those are the actual usernames and passwords that Spring Security will use when they're actually authenticating a given user for accessing those actuator endpoints.

## Customising Spring Security

Now you may wonder, "Okay, well I wanna do something more than just that properties file. Well, no worries. You can customize Spring Security for the Spring Boot Actuator, so you can use a database for roles, encrypted passwords and so on. We'll cover the details of spring Security later in the course.

## Excluding Endpoints

We can also exclude endpoints. So to exclude `/health` and `/info` we simply add an entry here in `application.properties`. We say:

```application.properties
# Exclude individual endpoints with a comma-delimited list
# management.endpoints.web.exposure.exclude = health,info
```

So with `health`, `info` and that way no one can access those given endpoints.
