# Spring Boot Project Structure

So remember, we already created a new project using a **Spring Initializr**, so that actually created a Maven project for us. And so now we'll actually explore the project structure, as stated. So we'll do that in this lesson. 

## Maven Standard Directory Structure

**Spring Boot** makes use of the **standard Maven directory structure**. So for the `src/main/java`, that's where you actually place your Java source codes. For `src/main/resources`, this is where you'll have like, your properties files or config files that's used by your application. And then under `src/test/java`, that's where you can place your unit testing code. 

## Maven Wrapper Files

You may have seen these `mvnw.` files. Those are **Maven Wrapper files**. 

So the `mvnw.`, or the **Maven Wrapper files**, they allow you to run a Maven project. There's no need to have Maven installed or have it present on your path. So what this file will do is, if the correct version of Maven is not found on your computer, then it'll actually automatically download it from the internet, and run Maven. 

So two files that are provided for you: 

  + `mvnw.cmd` file, that's for Microsoft Windows, so you can use that to say, 
    ```cmd
    mvnw clean compile test
    ``` 
  + `mvnw.sh`, and this is for Linux or Mac systems. So here you could say, 
    ```cmd
    ./mvnw clean compile test
    ```

Now, if you already have Maven installed on your computer, then there's actually no need for the `mvnw.` files, so you can safely ignore those files or delete them. They're not required. So in that case, since you already have Maven locally installed, you simply use Maven as you normally would: 

```cmd
mvn clean compile tests
```

## Maven POM File

The **POM** file includes the information that you entered at the **Spring Initializr** website. 

So for example, you gave information about the **Group ID**, **Artifact ID**, and **Version** - GAV. That information's automatically in your POM file that was generated. 

### **Maven Dependencies**

And then also, you'll have a collection of Maven dependencies in the file too. And you'll notice here that they're called **starters**. So they are **Spring Boot starters**, which is really just a collection of Maven dependencies. And these are the compatible versions for these dependencies. 

```xml 
  <dependencies>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
      <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
      <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-test</artifactId>
      <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency>
  </dependencies>
```

So for example, we have this `spring-boot-starter-web`. Well, this is really a collection of dependencies, so it's a collection of: ***spring-web***, ***spring-webmvc***, ***hibernate-validator***, ***tomcat***, ***json***. So what this does is that it saves the developer from having to list all of the individual dependencies, and also makes sure you have compatible versions. 

### **Maven Plugin**

And then also in the Maven POM file, there's a section here for the Spring Boot Maven plugin, so you'll actually see that at the bottom of the POM file. So here, this plugin is used to package a executable `jar` file that we can run from the command line or to create a `war` archive file.

```xml
  <build>
    <plugins>
      <plugin>
        <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
        <artifactId>spring-boot-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      </plugin>
    </plugins>
  </build>
```

And you can also use this plugin to easily run the application here. So at the bottom,

```cmd 
./mvnw package
```

and then,

```cmd 
./mvnw spring-boot:running
```

So that's the idea of the Spring Boot Maven plugin for packaging, and also for running. If you have Maven installed in your computer, then you don't need `mvnw`, you simply use the above commands based on your environment and based on your configuration. 

## Java Source Code

So when you generate your actual project, you have this main spring boot application class that's actually created by the Spring Initializr, `MycoolappApplication.java`. And then we also saw in our previous lesson, we created a Rest controller, we called it `RestController.java`, and we used it to expose a very simple REST API. 

## Application Properties

By default, Spring Boot will load properties from a specific file called `application.properties`. So this is a magic file that Spring knows about, and it'll look for it in the `src/main/resources`. 

Now, this `application.properties` file is actually created by the **Spring Initializr** site when you actually create your project. The file is empty at the beginning, but you can actually add some Spring Boot properties. If we want Spring Boot not to listen on port `8080`, but on port `8585`, or whatever magic number, we could say: 

```application.properties
server.port = 8585
```

You could also add your own custom properties to this file. So I could say: 

```application.properties
coach.name = Mickey Mouse
coach.team = The Mouse Crew
```

So you can give as many properties here as you'd like in this `application.properties` file. 

Now, how would you kind of read some data from that application properties? So, we know it's under `src/main/resources`, and I put my own specific information in there or my own custom properties here. So, here I have: 

```application.properties
# configure server port
server.port = 8585

# configure my props
coach.name = Mickey Mouse
coach.team = The Mouse Crew
```

We can read/use this in the rest controller by making use of **injection**. So here's my `RestController.java`, 

```java FunRestController.java
@RestController
public class RestController {

    // Developer's name saved in `application.properties` file
    @Value("${developer.name}")
    public String developerName;

    @Value("${developer.team}")
    public String developerTeam;

    // expose "/" that return "Hello World"
    @GetMapping("/")
    public StringBuilder sayHello() {
        StringBuilder greeting = new StringBuilder();
        greeting.append("Hello 'Engr. ");
        greeting.append(developerName + "' of team '");
        greeting.append(developerTeam + "'");
        return greeting;
    }

}
```

and then I make use of that `@Value`, and I give a dollar sign, curly brace, and then I give the actual property name here. Then I assign it to this given field, `private String developerName`. And then I could do a similar thing here for `developer.team`, right? You can repeat the process for any other properties that you have in your `application.properties` file. 

We'll go more in depth about these properties, but this is enough to get us going. 


## Static Content

By default, Spring Boot will load static resources (like, HTML files, cascading style sheets, JavaScript, images, PDFs) from the `/static` directory. So you simply place them in the `/static` directory and Spring Boot will load it automatically for your given application. 

Now, one warning that you need to be aware of, is that do not use the `src/main/webapp` directory if your application is packaged as a JAR. Although this is a standard Maven directory, it only works with WAR packaging. It's silently ignored by most build tools if you generate a JAR file. And believe me, you'll waste many hours, trying to resolve this or trying to get this to work, but don't worry, I'll actually show you how to make use of templates and Thymeleaf and so on. I'll show you how to do that in later lessons, but just kind of a heads up, if you wanted to get started quickly, just be aware of that one issue. 

## Templates

Spring Boot includes auto-configuration for the following template engines: 

  + FreeMarker 
  + Thymeleaf 
  + Mustache, 

and by default Spring Boot will load templates from the `/templates` directory. 

Thymeleaf is a popular template engine, and we'll actually use it later in the course. If you're interested in some of the other templates like FreeMarker or Mustache, just do an online search and you'll find plenty of examples out there, and you'll find examples also that make use of Spring and Spring Boot if you'd like. 


## Unit Tests

As for unit test, you have this file here, `MycoolappApplicationTests.java`. So, this is actually created by the **Spring Initializr** at the beginning. It's just a very basic test. You can simply add your own custom unit test to this file and it's part of the Spring Boot infrastructure. 

So that was kind of a quick tour of the Spring Boot project structure. So we went through and we reviewed every one of the files that are created by **Spring Initializr**. So you should have a good idea as far as those files, and in later lessons, we'll dive in a bit deeper and see how these different files work out. All right.
