# Spring Boot Starters

Building a Spring application is really hard and one of those frequently asked questions is: "Which Maven dependencies do I need to use?" 

And so, you know, it'd be really great if there was simply a list of Maven dependencies that's collected as a group of dependencies for that whole one-stop shopping, because as a developer, I really don't wanna waste time having to search for each dependency and trying to see what's out there and see what's available. There should be an easier solution for all of this. So the solution here is by making use of **Spring Boot Starters**. 

All right, so the Spring boot starters are a curated list of Maven dependencies. It's a collection of dependencies that are grouped together, that have been tested and verified by the Spring Development team. And these starters make it much easier for the developer to get started with Spring and it also reduces the amount of Maven configuration that you have to do. And so also, no more need for searching or hunting for the right dependency. Simply use a starter and you're ready to go. 

***A Spring Boot Starter is an entry for dependency***. 

## Spring MVC 

So, let's look at an example with Spring MVC. 

Building a traditional Spring MVC app you normally would need to add Spring MVC. You also would add hibernate validator for some form validation. And then for given web template you'd have to put some information there. So a lot of stuff that you would've to do individually as far as listing out those dependencies. 

Here's a solution by making use of the Spring Boot Starters for web, you simply add this Maven dependency to your Maven pom file. And this is a single entry. 

```xml
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
  </dependency>
```

And so this is a Spring Boot Starter. It's a collection of Maven dependencies with compatible versions. So this one dependency entry `<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>`, actually contains other dependencies. So it contains ***spring-web***, ***spring-webmvc***, ***hibernate-validator***, ***json***, ***tomcat***, and so on. So you get a lot of stuff for the price of one and this saves the developer from having to list all of the individual dependencies. And it also makes sure that you have compatible versions of those dependencies. And this is really helpful. 

## Spring Initializr

In Spring Initializr, in order to get access to this you simply select web dependency and you'll automatically get the `spring-boot-starter-web` in your `pom.xml` file. 

So once you select **web** from the list at the initializr website, then this is the actual Spring boot starters that they'll add for you. And this web starter here will basically give you support for Tomcat and Spring MVC. 

## What Is In the Starter?

So what we can do is make use of the IDE. So most IDEs have a **Dependency Management** or **View** feature and this is much easier to navigate. I'll actually show you how to do this with **Eclipse** and **IntelliJ**. 

For Eclipse users, basically you open up the `pom.xml` file, and then you select the tab for dependency hierarchy at the bottom, and then you expand the desired starter, and then you'll actually see the content in that starter. So from this little screenshot here, we can see at the top spring boot starter web, it includes starter-json, tomcat validator, web, web mvc, and so on. So that's kind of the basic approach that you can use to kind of explore the starters to see what's in there, to see what's available. 

For the IntelliJ users you simply use the menu option, view, tool windows, Maven projects, and then expand dependencies here. And then you'll see the list of starters and then you can kinda expand a given starter and then you can see the actual contents of that given starter. All right, so that's the basic approach for exploring or finding out what is in a given starter. 
