# Setting Up a Database Table Laboratory

We'll set up our database table. To get started, we'll make use of two database scripts. There are two scripts here, `01-create-user` and `02-student-tracker`. Both are in the `z-Project` folder.

The first file, `01-create-user.sql`, creates a new MySQL user for our application. The user ID will be `springstudent` and the password will be `springstudent`. The second file is `02-student-tracker.sql`. This will create the database table, `student` with the four fields, `id`, `first_name`, `last_name`, and `email` for our application.InnoDB: Provides robust transactional support and other advanced features.

In the `02-student-tracker.sql` script, `InnoDB` provides robust transactional support and other advanced features. `AUTO_INCREMENT` automatically generates unique IDs for new rows. `latin1` specifies the character encoding for the table.

## Step 1: Create User 

This is for MySQL. You can check the **MySQL documentation** on how to create a user and password. The script to use is as follows:

```sql 01-create-user.sql
-- Drop user first if they exist
DROP USER if exists 'springstudent'@'%' ;

-- Now create user with prop privileges
CREATE USER 'springstudent'@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'springstudent';

GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON * . * TO 'springstudent'@'%';
``` 

This creates a new user: user ID of `springstudent`, with password of `springstudent`.

Now, if I click on the **Administration** tab over on the left hand side and select **Users and Privileges** then we should see this new account that was just created, **springstudent**. Okay, that looks really good. 

In the sql, we used the `CREATE USER` keyword to create a user, and the `IDENTIFIED BY` keyword to attached the user with the id `springstudent` which is the password. All right, so now let's go ahead and move out or close this connection. 

## Step 2: Create Connection for User 

This is for MySQL. You can check the **MySQL documentation** on how to create a user and password.

After then, let's go ahead and open up our SQL script, `02-student-database.sql`. 

```sql 02-student-tracker.sql
--
-- Database `student-database`
--
CREATE DATABASE  IF NOT EXISTS `student-database`;
USE `student-database`;

--
-- Table structure for table `student`
--
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `student`;

CREATE TABLE `student` (
  `id` int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `first_name`varchar(45) DEFAULT NULL,
  `last_name` varchar(45) DEFAULT NULL,
  `email` varchar(45) DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB AUTO_INCREMENT=1 DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1;
```

And behind the scenes this basically creates the database schema for us called `student_tracker`. And then it'll create a table for us called `student` with four columns here: `id`, `first_name`, `last_name`, and `email`. 

Let's take a look at the columns here. For this table, we have these four columns: `id`, `first_name`, `last_name`, and `email`. And we can also do a quick query on this table.
