# Exception Edge Cases 

But, we're not really done. There are some edge cases out there and you may have discovered them already. 

If you enter some text characters for the `studentId` like: `abcdefghijxyz` or something, then that won't really work for our application. So we added some exception handling, but we didn't cover all of the edge cases. And we can get some more details by actually looking at the server logs to find out what exactly happened here. It says it failed to convert value of type `java.lang.String` to required type of `int`. 

But, we didn't give a good JSON error response. So, we'll actually need to modify our code to handle for these edge cases. Or, kind of set up like a generic exception handler. So for any error that happens, we can catch it. And then send back that response as JSON. And we'll actually cover this. 

You would wonder why this will work because we haven't created a condition to check for characters. But here, we will make use of the default exception thrown by Spring, because, as long as Spring notices any non-`int` parameter, it raises a general exception, `Exception`. We will catch/handle it with the new method. 

## Exception-Handler Method 

We still have the `StudentErrorResponse`, and `StudentNotFoundException` classes. 

Let's go ahead and add an exception handler for this issue. And basically we're going to set up a *catch-all exception* to catch any of those edge cases that pop up in our application. 

And here again, in the `StudentRestController`, I'll do the catch-all for any type of exception that's being thrown. 

```Java StudentRestController.java
@RestController
@RequestMapping("/college")
public class CollegeController {

    ...

    @GetMapping("/student/{studentId}")
    public ResponseEntity<?> getStudent(@PathVariable Long studentId) {

        Student student = null;

        // Try if student id is a number
        try {
            student = studentDAO.findById(studentId);
        }
        catch (RuntimeException e) {
            throw new RuntimeException("Input parameter is not a number");
        }

        // Try this to catch `0` or negative integers
        if (studentId == 0 || studentId < 0 || student == null) {
            throw new StudentNotFoundException("The student is not found.");
        }

        // If there is no exception
        return new ResponseEntity<>(student, HttpStatus.OK);
    }

    // Handles catch of non-numeric values
    @ExceptionHandler
    public ResponseEntity<?> handleException(RuntimeException e) {
        StudentErrorResponse error = new StudentErrorResponse();
        error.setStatus(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND.value());
        error.setMessage(e.getMessage());
        error.setTimeStamp(System.currentTimeMillis());
        return new ResponseEntity<>(error, HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST);
    }

    // Handles catch of `0` or negative integers
    // Handles if there is no student with the id
    @ExceptionHandler
    public ResponseEntity<?> handleException(StudentNotFoundException e) {
        StudentErrorResponse error = new StudentErrorResponse();
        error.setStatus(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND.value());
        error.setMessage(e.getMessage());
        error.setTimeStamp(System.currentTimeMillis());
        return new ResponseEntity<>(error, HttpStatus.BAD_REQUEST);
    }
}
```

Now for the actual method body, I have copied some of that information from our previous exception handler. 

One thing we have modified here is the status code, because currently we have not found, but in this case it's just a bad request. All right, so they're just passing over some bad data or a bad request and we wanna reflect that accordingly in the status code. We say `status.BAD_REQUEST`. So that's actually gonna be a `400` error as opposed to a `404`. 

Everything else for this coding remains the same. There's no major changes there. So again, we're just adding another exception handler to do the catch all portion here. 

## Run the Application

Let's go ahead and test this out and let's run it and see how it works out for us. We'll actually just use the 999 to test that portion. So that part is still working, but again let's really break it by just entering some text values and success. 

1. Tried: GET `http://localhost:8080/college/student/3`
   + ***CONFIRMED***: Returned a response.
2. Tried: GET `http://localhost:8080/college/student/-1`
   + ***CONFIRMED***: Returned an error response.
3. Tried: GET `http://localhost:8080/college/student/0`
   + ***CONFIRMED***: Returned an error response.
4. Tried: GET `http://localhost:8080/college/student/999`
   + ***CONFIRMED***: Returned an error response.

We're getting the air packet back as JSON data. And again, let's swing over to Postman and do a similar thing. Yeah, and then good job. 

Once more, we're getting this error response as JSON and in the top right it says it's a **bad request**. 

If you'd like, you can leave it as is, or you can change the error message to be a bit more friendly to the user. In your Java code you simply update the line `error.setMessage()` and you can give whatever plain text area that you want instead of giving the full exception. So it's totally up to you as for how you want to control and customize that portion.
