# Spring Boot Overview

## Spring Boot in a nutshell.

Spring's a very popular framework for building Java applications. It provides a large number of helper classes and annotations, but the problem is that building a traditional Spring application is really hard, because you have a couple of questions.

  + Which JAR dependencies do I need for this Spring project?
  + How do I set up configuration? Should I use XML configuration or Java configuration?
  + How do I install the server? Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere and so on.

And that's just the basics for getting started. You haven't even really started building your real application yet. So this is where the Spring Boot solution comes into play.

  + Spring Boot makes it easier to get started with Spring development.
  + It minimizes the amount of manual configuration you have to do. Spring Boot will perform the auto configuration based on your ***properties file*** and the JAR classpath, and it also helps to resolve dependency conflicts, and
  + Spring Boot also provides an embedded HTTP server so you can get started quickly. So out of the box, it has support for embedded Tomcat Jetty or Undertow, and those are simply HP servers that you can embed in your Spring Boot application.


## Spring Boot and Spring

Now what's the relationship between Spring Boot and Spring? Well, 

  + Spring Boot uses Spring behind the scenes.
  + Spring Boot simply makes it easier to use Spring. 

So at a very high level you're using Spring Boot but behind the scenes there's still Spring code running. So you'll need to learn Spring Boot and also learn Spring.


## Spring Initializr

Now Spring Boot provides the Spring initializer. So this is a website for quickly creating a starter spring project. So basically you go to this website at `start.spring.io` you simply select your dependencies and then it'll actually create a Maven or Gradle project for you that you can download and import into your IDE. So you can import it into Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans or so on. Or you could just use a plain text editor and use Maven at the command line.


## Spring Boot Embedded Server

So Spring Boot provides an embedded HTTP server so you can get started quickly. So it has a port for Tomcat, Jetty, and Undertow. So basically you'll have your application like `mycoolapp.jar` so this JAR file will include your application code and it'll also include the embedded server.


## Running Spring Boot Apps

So if I wanted to run my Spring Boot app, I could run it from the IDE or I could run it from the command line. So again, we have this `mycoolapp.jar` that includes my code and also the embedded server, in this case Tomcat. 


```cmd
java -jar mycoolapp.jar

```

I gave the name of my JAR files, so in this case `mycoolapp.jar` and it'll actually run my application and it'll also spin up the server. And my app is up and running in a standalone fashion.


## Deploying Spring Boot Apps

Spring Boot apps can also be deployed in the traditional fashion. So you can deploy a WAR file to an external server like Tomcat, JBoss, or WebSphere and it can work just like you would use it in the past. 

All right, so here we have this Tomcat server. Let's say it's deployed somewhere on your corporate network. Then you could simply take your Spring Boot app and then you can deploy that Spring Boot app as a WAR file with a `.war` extension. So now as a war file, you only have your code included.

There's no need to have the embedded server because now you're deploying it in a traditional sense. There may be other project teams that are deploying their apps in the traditional way too. So you can have the travel team deploying our travel WAR, the e-commerce group, the shopping group deploying that WAR.
