# Spring Boot - Create REST Controller

We'll actually create a REST controller for our Spring Boot application. So here, I'm going to create a very simple REST controller, because in the previous lesson we had Spring Boot up and running. But we had that ugly, error page, because we didn't have any coding in place. So what we'll do here is we'll actually create a very simple REST controller that'll say "Hello World!" 

## Create a New Package: `controller`

We'll add our own REST controller, for that **Hello World example**. We will create a new package, `rest`. 

## Create REST Controller: `RESTController`

Creating a REST controller is really easy. So if we wanted to create a REST controller, 


```Java
@RestController
public class FunRestController {

	// expose "/" that return "Hello World"

	@GetMapping("/")
	public String sayHello() {
		return "Hello World!";
	}
}

```

We'd simply say `@RestController` and call it `FunRestController`. The annotation, `@RestController` sets up a rest controller. And then here we're gonna *expose* the forward slash that'll simply return "Hello World". So I'll simply set up a get mapping, `@GetMapping`. The annotation, `@GetMapping("/")` handles `HTTP GET` requests. I'll have this method, such that when called it returns a string, "Hello World!". This is really just a very basic hello world controller and this will actually run in our Spring Boot application.

### **Create a new class: `RestController`**

So now we will create a new class in this package, I'll call it `FunRestController.java`. There's nothing in it. 


```Java
package com.opf.springboot.demo.mycoolapp.rest;

import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.GetMapping;
import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;

@RestController
public class FunRestController {

    // expose "/" that return "Hello World!"
    @GetMapping("/")
    public String sayHello() {
        return "Hello World!";
    }

}

```

So building REST controllers, we start with the annotation `@RestController`. Okay, so import that rest controller annotation. I have set up a get mapping with `"/"` as the argument. And I've just defined a method here, `public string sayHello()`. And I'll just return "Hello World!" Our REST controller is up and running.
