# Command-Line

We're gonna learn how to run Spring Boot from the command line. During development, we spend most of our time in the IDE of choice. However, we may want to run our Spring Boot applications outside of the IDE. And so, one approach is running it from the command line.

Now, when running from the command line, there's actually no need to have your IDE open and running. So whatever IDE you're using, you can simply do a file exit and move out of that and just run your app standalone, from the command line. 

So, since we're using Spring Boot, the server is actually embedded in our JAR file. So there's no need to have a separate server installed, there's no need to have Tomcat running separately, because our Spring Boot app include the server already. So, since our Spring Boot apps are self-contained, then we have the packaged app, **mycoolapp.jar** and then this JAR file actually includes our application code, and the actual server.

Now, running from the command line you actually have two options. 

  + Use the command `java -jar`, and give the name of your JAR file. 
  + Use of the Spring Boot Maven plugin by simply giving `mvnw spring-boot:run`. 

### **Using `java -jar`**

We simply make use of `java -jar`. So if we have a Spring Boot application called **mycoolapp.jar**, then we can simply run it from the command line by using the command `java -jar`, and then we give the actual name of our JAR file, in this case **mycoolapp.jar**:

```cmd
java -jar mycoolapp.jar
```

And it'll start up our application. It'll start up the server, and it's up and running. There's no need for an IDE. There's no need to have a separate server installed. 

### **Using `mvnw spring-boot:run`**

So let's look at option two of using the Spring Boot Maven plugin. So remember in our Spring Boot project we have these `mvmw` commands. They allow us to run a Maven project, and in this case with `mvmw`, there's no need to have Maven installed or present on your path. If the correct version is not there, then it'll automatically download the correct version of Maven. 

And remember, we covered this in a previous lesson. So they give you two files here from `mvnw`. You get the `mvnw.cmd` from Microsoft Windows. And there's also the `mvnw.sh` for Linnux/Mac. So again, just makes it really easy for you to get started with Maven without actually having to manually install it yourself. 

What if you already have Maven installed? Well, in that case you can simply ignore or delete those `mvnw` commands and get rid of them. And simply just use Maven as you normally would.

So you'd say: 

```cmd
mvn clean compile test ....
```

No need for `mvnw`. All right. So a bit more here into the specifics here with this Spring Boot Maven plugin. So, in your `pom.xml` file, you already have this entry here that was generated by the Spring Initializer. We have this plugin here for the **artifactId** of `spring-boot-maven-plugin`. So, we can use this plugin to actually package an executable jar file or a war file. And we can also use it to easily run our application. So to package our application we say `mvnw` package. And then to actually run our application using a Spring Boot plugin we say `mvnw spring-boot:run`.
