# Deleting Objects 

We'll learn how to delete an object. And with our development process here, we're almost done. So we've covered the create, read, and update. The final item here is performing a delete on a given object and that'll cover the major steps for CRUD development. 

### **By Using the Id**

To delete a student, we call this `entityManager.find()`, pass any id, the primary key of that given student. Then we call `entityManager.remove()`. That'll actually delete the student from the database. 

```Java
// retrieve the student
int id = 1;
Student theStudent = entityManager.find(Student.class, id);

// delete the student
entityManager.remove(theStudent)
```

### **By Query**

We can also delete multiple students based on a condition. Here I can say: 

```Java
int numRowsDeleted = entityManager.createQuery("DELETE FROM Student WHERE lastName='Smith'").executeUpdate();
```

Here I'm basically deleting all students who have the last name of Smith. And notice here the syntax delete from student, student is the name of the JPA entity, the class name, and last name's the actual field of the JPA entity. 

Then I make use to this `executeUpdate()` to execute this statement. Why does it say **execute update**? Well, in the API the method name **update** is simply a generic term. So we could be performing an update, performing a delete, or whatever. We're simply modifying the database. 

Now you could also delete all the students from a database. 

```Java
int numRowsDeleted = entityManager.createQuery("DELETE FROM Student").executeUpdate()
```

And notice here, there is no conditions. We're just going to delete all the students. 

## Development Process 

Now, let's look at the development process for integrating this into our DAO application. And you understand the drill already, right? 

  1. Add the new method to the DAO Interface. 
  2. Add the new method to the DAO Implementation, 
  3. Update the main app. 

## The DAO Interface 

I'll start here by adding a new method to the DAO interface. I'll have this method delete and we'll pass in an Integer id. 

```Java
public interface StudentDAO {
	...

	String delete(int theId);
}
```

## The DAO Implementation 

We'll add a new method to the DAO implementation. And now let's go ahead and implement this method for a delete. 

```Java
public class StudentDAOImpl implements StudentDAO {
	...
	
    @Override
    @Transactional
    public String delete(int theId) {

        // get the student with theId
        Object theStudent = entityManager.find(Student.class, theId);

        // remove the student
        entityManager.remove(theStudent);

        return "The student with the id " + theId + " is removed.";
    }
}
```

We added the `@Transactional` annotation since we're performing a delete on the database. So we're modifying the database, run that inside of our transaction. 

W'll retrieve the student and then delete the student. 

And that's the basic coding here for deleting a student. 


## The Main Application

In this example, I wanna delete studentId of three. I'll call this `studentDAO.delete()` and I pass in that student Id. 

```Java
@SpringBootApplication
public class DemoApplication {
    ...

    @Bean
    public CommandLineRunner commandLineRunner(DAO dao) {
        return runner -> {
            int theId = 20;
            removeStudent(dao, theId);
        };
    }

    public void removeStudent(DAO dao, int theId) {
        dao.delete(theId);
    }
}
```

And that's the basic coding here for deleting the student. Now, before we run this application, let's verify that we have data in the database, and in particular the student ID of three. I'll swing over to MySQL Workbench. I'll just run a query here on this student table to check if we do have the student with ID of three. 

Let's verify this in the database. Just run that query one more time. And success. Notice here, student id of three has been deleted. No longer there. So this kind of works out as desired.
