# Overview 

We will set up our Spring Boot project. 

## Automatic Data Source Configuration 

In Spring Boot, Hibernate is the default implementation of JPA, and `EntityManager` is a main component that we'll use for creating queries and so forth. Based on the **Automatic Data Source Configuration**, Spring Boot will automatically create the beans for `DataSource` and `EntityManager`, and so on, and then we can inject these into our app. For example, you can inject the `EntityManager` into your DAO, and we'll actually do that in an upcoming lesson. 

To help us get started, we'll set up our project with the Spring Initializr. We'll add the dependencies here for the **MySQL Driver**, and also for the **Spring Data JPA**. We'll add an entry here for our database driver, `mysql-connector-j` and also for Spring Data JPA, `spring-boot-starter-data-jpa`. 

Spring Boot will read the database connection information from the `application.properties` file. Let's take a quick look at the `application.properties` file. 

```application.properties
spring.datasource.url = jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/student_tracker
spring.datasource.username = springstudent
spring.datasource.password = springstudent
```

`spring.datasource.url` is a Spring Boot property used to specify the URL for the database connection.
`jdbc:mysql://` indicates that the connection is using the JDBC (Java Database Connectivity) protocol with a MySQL database. `localhost:` specifies the hostname where the MySQL database server is running. localhost means that the database is running on the same machine as the application. While `3306:` is the port number on which the MySQL database server is listening. The default port for MySQL is `3306`.

## Spring Boot Command-Line Application 

We'll create a Spring Boot command line application. This will allow us to focus on the Hibernate JPA coding. Later in the course, we'll apply this to a CRUD REST API. So we'll start small, with just a command line app, and then we'll move it to a CRUD REST API later in the course.

So, let's just kind of start with the basics here with Hibernate JPA. Now here's the basic layout here for our command line application. 

```Java CruddemoApplication.java 
import org.springframework.boot.CommandLineRunner;
import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;
import org.springframework.context.annotation.Bean;

@SpringBootApplication
public class CruddemoApplication {
	
	public static void main(String[] args) {
		SpringApplication.run(CruddemoApplication.class, args);
	}

	@Bean
	public CommandLineRunner commandLineRunner(String[] args) {
		return runner -> {
			System.out.println("Hello world");
		};
	}
}
```

So we have our normal Spring Boot application, we have the normal `main()` method. Then we have the `@Bean` here where we'll create this `commandLineRunner`. The `CommandLineRunner` is from the Spring framework and it's basically a hook that allows us to execute code after the Spring Beans have been loaded into the application **context**. And then notice here in the coding we have `return runner`, and we do `System.out.println()`. This little code block here is a **Lambda expression**, and this is where we can basically add our own custom code.

## Editing Console Log Interface 

One thing I'd like to do is that when we're running these standalone applications, we want to focus on doing some operation and then printing out the results. We want to turn off some of the chatter. 

### **Turn of the Spring Boot Banner**

We don't want to see the Spring Boot banner every time we are running Spring Boot. So I'd like to turn off this banner, and you can easily do this via a configuration. 

So let's swing over to our `application.properties` file and then we'll add an entry here to turn off the Spring Boot banner. 

```application.properties
# Turn of Spring Boot banner 
spring.main.banner-mode = off
```

And then when you run the application again, you'll see that it runs without the Spring Boot banner being displayed. 

### **Turn off the Loggings**

Again, we're just trying to minimize some of the logging and minimize some of the chatter that we see when we run our application, therefore we want to reduce the logging level. 

So I wanna set the `logging-level` to `warn` such that it'll only show the warnings and the errors but not all the normal background logging information for Spring. 

```application.properties
# Reduce logging level. Set logging level to warn 
logging.level.root = warn
```

I'll simply want to see the information or the output from my application. And then when you run the application again, you'll see that it runs without all the chatter except the output of the custom code of the standalone application. 
