# JSON Basics 

So, what exactly is JSON? JSON is a lightweight data format for storing and exchanging data. It's plain text, and consequently language independent. You can use it not only with JavaScript, but also with any programming language, such as Java, C#, and Python. 

## Simple JSON Example 

Now let's go ahead and look at a very simple JSON example. So here we define a JSON object. In the JSON syntax, you make use of curly braces to define the object. And then you have the object members which are simply name-value pairs. And the name value pairs are actually delimited by comma. 

```Json
{
	"id": 14,
	"firstName": "Mario",
	"lastName": "Rossi",
	"active": true
}
```

So here in this example, I have the **name** on the left hand side with a **colon**, and then the actual **value**. And whenever you define a name in JSON the name is always in double quotes. So whatever you have on the left hand side of that colon will always be in double quotes. 

## JSON Values 

So let's go ahead and look at some JSON values. So remember, the JSON value is actually on the right hand side of the colon. So that's the actual value. You can have different types of values here: 

```Json
{
	"id": 14,
	"firstName": "Mario",
	"lastName": "Rossi",
	"active": true
}
```

  + Numbers: `14` 
  + Strings: `"Mario"`, `"Rossi"`
  + Booleans: `true`, `false` 
  + Nested JSON objects 
  + Reference to nothing: `null`
  + Arrays

So here in this example where we have `active`, the value can be `true` or `false`. 

## Nested JSON Objects 

Nested JSON Objects. It's basically, one item inside of another. So in this case, we have a nested JSON object. 

```Json
{
	"id": 14,
	"firstName": "Mario",
	"lastName": "Rossi",
	"active": true,
	"address" : {
		"street" : "100 Main St",
		"city" : "Philadelphia",
		"state" : "Pennsylvania",
		"zip" : "19103",
		"country" : "USA" 
	}
}
```

Here, `address`, is another nested object here. And you can nest as many levels deep as you like for your given JSON Object Model. 

## JSON Arrays 

There's also support for arrays in JSON. So in this example here, we have `languages`, which is an array of languages that a given student is learning. So in JSON, you make use of arrays with a square bracket and you simply give a comma delimited list of items here. So in this example, it's just a comma delimited list of strings. You can have an array of any type of values out there that you'd like. 

```Json
{
	"id": 14,
	"firstName": "Mario",
	"lastName": "Rossi",
	"active": true,
	"languages": ["Java", "C#", "Python", "Javascript"]
}
```

So this is the basics here with JSON. In some of the following lessons, we'll see how to read JSON, and we'll read all the different value types like: numbers, strings, booleans.
