# Spring REST HTTP 

## REST Over HTTP 

### **Use of REST Over HTTP**

So the most common use of REST is over HTTP. 

### **Leverage HTTP Methods for CRUD Operations**

We can leverage the HTTP methods for CRUD operations. 

  + Whenever you send over a `POST` request, then this can translate to the **Create** CRUD operation.
  + When you send over a `GET` request, this can translate to the **Read** CRUD operation.
  + For the `PUT` method, this is for **Update** CRUD operation.
  + The `DELETE` method, this can be used for the **Delete** CRUD operation.

And we'll write the code for this in some of the following lessons, where we'll build a REST controller and then we'll have support for these given HTTP methods, and it'll translate to the appropriate CRUD operations that will perform on our database. 

## HTTP Messages 

So we have this idea of our client application and we also have our server application. So the client is going to send over **REST requests** to a server. Then our server can process it, and send back an actual **REST response**, an HTTP message response.

Now let's go ahead and break this down a bit, and see what's in the request message and also what's in the response message. 

### **HTTP Request Messages**

The actual request message has three main parts. It has: 

  + A request line: 
    - The request line has the actual HTTP commands or methods, like `GET`, `POST`, `DELETE`. 
  + Header variables: 
    - The header variables has the request metadata which are the additional information about this request. 
  + Message body: 
    - The message body has the contents of the message or the actual payload. So if you're adding a new entity, then the actual contents of that entity will be in the message body as JSON. 

### **HTTP Response Messages**

Response messages have three different areas also. 

  + A response line: 
    - The actual server protocol and status code. So here the status code could be one of the HTTP status codes, like `200`, `404` or `500`. 
  + Header variables: 
    - That's the response metadata. So this is the actual information about the data. So the content type of the data, if it's XML, or if it's JSON, the size or length of the data.  
  + A message body: 
    - Is the contents of the message. So if you said, "Hey, gimme a list of all customers" then that list of data will actually come back in the message body as either XML or JSON, depending on how the server's configured. 

### **Status Codes**

Now for the HTTP response, you can send back a status code to give information about the status. So you have codes in different ranges. So anything in the: 

  + `100`: informational 
  + `200`: success 
  + `300`: redirection 
  + `400`: client error 
  + `500`: server error 

So these are basically status codes that's returned by the server as part of the HTTP response. 

### **MIME Content Types**

And then we also have the idea of MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail-Extension) content types. So this is basically the message format for the actual payload. It simply describes the actual content or the format of the message being returned. You have the basic syntax for it, you have: `<type>/<subtype>`. Here are some examples: `text/html`, `text/plain`. 

So this is the information that's returned back to the client, and then the client can render or process it accordingly. So some examples here, if you return back `text/html` to a web browser, the web browser will render that based on the HTML tags. If you pass back `text/plain`, the web browser will simply just show you the plain text in the browser. That's just for a web browser example. 

You can also make use of RESTful clients for that. And so in particular for RESTful clients, we can pass back `application/json` or `application/xml`. And again, the client can process on it accordingly. 

## Client Tool 

We also need a client tool. So this client tool is something that we can use to send HTTP requests to the REST web service API, and then it'll get the response and we can actually view it there in the tool. So there are plenty of tools that are available like: Curl, which is a command line tool; Postman, a GUI tool; and a lot of others. So in this course, we'll make use of **Postman**. 

**Postman** is a really popular tool that's used for realtime projects. And "Postman Makes API Development Simple." It's very simple, very easy to use and a lot of people like to use it. So it's very common. 
