# Maven Crash Course

## Spring Boot and Maven

So here's the relationship between **Spring Boot** and **Maven**. When you generate projects using a Spring Initializer website, it can generate a Maven project for you. 

In this section, we're gonna learn the basics of Maven, 

  + Viewing dependencies in the Maven `pom.xml` file, 

  + Spring Boot starters for Maven. 

## What is Maven?

Maven is a project management tool for your application. So the most popular use of Maven is for build-management and dependencies. 

## What Problems Does Maven Solve?

So what problems does Maven actually solve? Well, when you're building your Java project, you may need additional JAR files like Spring JAR files, Hibernate JAR files, and so on. 

And one approach is to simply download those JAR files from each project website, and then you'll manually add those JAR files to your build path or your class path. 

So the Maven solution is that you simply tell Maven the projects you're working with, Spring, Hibernate, and so on, and Maven will actually go out and download those JAR files for you from the internet. And then Maven will make those JAR files available during compile and runtime. So here's how our project would work with Maven. 

## Maven - How It Works

Using Maven, you have a project configuration file that Maven will read. So that's basically your shopping list. Then Maven will check a Maven Local Repository that resides on your computer (your local cache). If you don't have the files in your local repo, then Maven will actually go out to the Maven Central Repository, and it'll pull those JAR files down from there to your local cache. Then Maven will use that to build and run your application when needed. So that's the big picture. 

## Handling JAR Dependencies

Maven will retrieve a project's dependency and also any supporting dependencies. So if he says, "Hey, Maven, I need Spring". Well, Maven will also know that Spring depends on Commons Logging. So it will go ahead and grab that one also. 

So any dependencies, they'll go ahead and grab those additional items. So Maven will do this for us automagically, and it's really cool how this feature works out. 

## Building and Running

And finally, for building and running, when you build and run your app, Maven will handle the class and build path for you. So based on the configuration file, Maven will add the appropriate JARs accordingly so you don't have to manually configure your class path. Simply set up the Maven config file and Maven will do all the work for you. And again, that gives you more free time to sit there and drink your coffee.
