# Maven Project Structure

Now, normally when you join a new project each development team dream up their own directory structure, and it's not really ideal for newcomers, and it's not standardized. 

## Standard Directory Structure

So Maven solves this problem by providing a standard directory structure that you can use on your project. 

So here's the directory structure, `mycoolapp`. 

  + At the root of the directory I'll have this pom.xml file that's the Maven configuration file, your shopping list. We'll cover the pom.xml file a little bit more in detail later. 
  + We have this one area here called `src/main/java`. So this is where you place your Java source code.
  + Then we have a `resources` directory. That's where you'll place your properties files, or config files that are used by your application. 
  + There's also a webapp directory and this is where you place your JSP files, any web config files, images, CSS, so on. 
  + There's also a `src/test` directory. This is where you'll place your unit testing source code, and any properties and configuration files that are used by your unit testing code. 
  + And finally, there's a `target` directory. So this is the actual destination directory for your compiled code, and also any artifacts that Maven will generate. 

## Standard Directory Structure Benefits

What are the benefits of the standard directory structure? 

  + For new developers joining a project they can easily find code, properties files, unit tests, web files, and so on. This is very important, especially on real world, or real-time projects. You can quickly join a project and know where files are located. 
  + Also, another benefit is that most major IDEs have built in support for Maven. So like Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans. They can easily read and import Maven projects for you. So Maven projects are portable. So as a developer you can easily share projects between IDEs. So I could create a Maven project in NetBeans and easily open at project in Eclipse or IntelliJ, or vice versa. The really nice thing about this is that there's no need to fight about which IDE is the best. Use whatever IDE you want. And whatever works for you, works for you. 
  + One is dependency management. So Maven will find the JAR files for you. So no more missing JARs, and also building and running your projects, you know, no more worrying about build path or classpath. 
  + Finally, my personal best Maven benefits here is that once you learn Maven, you can join a new project and become productive, because you'll know how to build and run the project with minimal local configuration. Maven will handle going out to the internet, downloading any JAR files that you need, pulling it to your local computer, and you can run it. 

So it's really, really cool. So Mavens very powerful once you understand it. Once you get your head around it, then it's a very powerful tool. And you can definitely use it for your enterprise projects.
