# Maven Key Concepts

We're gonna cover some Maven Key Concepts. 

So we'll start with a discussion of the POM File, `pom.xml`, and then we'll also take a look at **Project Coordinates** and how we can use it in our POM File. 

## POM File - `pom.xml`

The POM File is your **Project Object Model** file. This is your configuration file for your project. 

So this is basically your shopping list for Maven. This is where you tell Maven, "Hey, we depend on X number of dependencies, go out and find those for us." And this POM File is always located in the root of your Maven project. 

So basically, you'll have the project metadata, you'll have a list of dependencies, and you'll have a list of plugins. So the project metadata is basically information about your project, like the name of your project, which version number, and also the output file type, like JAR file, WAR file, et cetera. 

The dependencies basically tell it, "Hey, this is the list of projects that we depend on." So if you list, if you depend on Spring or Hibernate or JSON, you'll list those dependencies there. 

And then also, you'll have a list of plugins. So these are like additional custom tasks to run. So you can use this for generating like JUnit test reports and so on. 

### **Simple POM File**

Alrighty, so let's go ahead and look at a simple POM File. 

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 https://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd">
	<modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
	<parent>
		<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
		<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-parent</artifactId>
		<version>3.4.2</version>
		<relativePath/> <!-- lookup parent from repository -->
	</parent>
	<groupId>com.opf</groupId>
	<artifactId>mycoolapp</artifactId>
	<version>0.0.1-SNAPSHOT</version>
	<name>mycoolapp</name>
	<description>Demo project for Spring Boot</description>
	<url/>
	<licenses>
		<license/>
	</licenses>
	<developers>
		<developer/>
	</developers>
	<scm>
		<connection/>
		<developerConnection/>
		<tag/>
		<url/>
	</scm>
	<properties>
		<java.version>17</java.version>
	</properties>
	<dependencies>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
			<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
		</dependency>

		<dependency>
			<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
			<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-test</artifactId>
			<scope>test</scope>
		</dependency>
	</dependencies>

	<build>
		<plugins>
			<plugin>
				<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
				<artifactId>spring-boot-maven-plugin</artifactId>
			</plugin>
		</plugins>
	</build>

</project>
```

  + So here's the file that starts with project, modelVersion, that's always the same.
  + Then we have our metadata. So this is where we can give the project name. So here the name is mycoolapp. We can give the Group ID, Artifact ID and the version number, and we can also specify the packaging. So in this example, the packaging will be for a JAR file. 
  + So the next section here is the dependencies. So this is where we list out all the dependencies that we need for our application. In this example, they make use of JUnit, but you can also add dependencies here for Spring, Hibernate, and et cetera. I'll show you some examples of adding Spring and Hibernate a little later in this lesson. 
  + So at the bottom we can add plugins for customization. So we can add some additional custom tasks, for example, generating JUnit test reports and so on.

## Project Coordinates

So let's go ahead and talk about Project Coordinates. 

So Project Coordinates uniquely identify a project. It's similar to GPS coordinates for your house, like the latitude and the longitude. It's basically precise information on how to find your house. So if I wanted to come visit you, I'd ask for your city, your street, and your house number, and that'll give me the specifics on how to find your given location. So the Group ID could be like the city, the Artifact ID could be the street, and then the version could be the actual house number. So some specific coordinates on how to find your house. 

So let's look at some real examples of Project Coordinates. So we saw the example up top of our com.luv2code example. And let's look at the dependency for the Spring project. Notice here we have the Group ID, the Artifact ID and the version. And let's also do a similar thing by looking at the dependency information for Hibernate. So here we have the Group ID, the Artifact ID, and the version. 

## Adding Dependencies

So if I wanted to add support for Spring and Hibernate to my project, then I would simply add in those dependencies in the Dependency Section. 

And so this is again, Maven's shopping list. So Maven will actually go out to the internet and pull down these, the related JAR files for this project and we can use them in our application. 

### **Dependency Coordinates**

To add a given dependency project, we need the,

  + Group ID and the Artifact ID,
  + Version is actually optional, but the best practice is to include the version for Repeatable Builds. And this is a best practice for using DevOps. You wanna be able to say, "Hey, our project works with version X, Y, Z of a given project." Just so you know that, that part has been tested, verified, and worked, and it's very, very important in the DevOps world. So always use the version. 

I recommend that as a best practice. And also you may see this referred to as **GAV** - ***Group ID, Artifact ID, version***. 

### **How to Find Dependency Coordinates**

All right, so we saw that and we saw that information for those Spring and Hibernate projects. But you may wonder, "Well, well how'd you find those dependency coordinates?" Well, you have two options. 

  + The first option is that you can actually visit the project page. So you can visit the Spring website or the Hibernate website, and they'll give you the details that you'll need to add their project using Maven. 
  + The other option is that you could go to the Maven Central Repository and actually search for those projects and then you can also get those details. 

I like to say that option two is the easiest approach, because that's just one site you go to, to look for it. 

If you use option one, option one's fine if you only have like one or two dependencies. But imagine on a Enterprise project, real-world, real-time, your project may use five, 10, maybe 20 dependencies, and you don't wanna have to go to all 20 websites to find out their Maven Coordinates. Using option two, you can go to this search shop maven.org. You simply type in those dependencies and you'll get all the information there. So it's kinda like a one stop shop, as far as getting the dependency coordinates.
