# Project Set-Up

## Set-Up Database Table 

We will set-up the database table to work with. So we'll have this file called `employee.sql`. 

```sql
CREATE DATABASE  IF NOT EXISTS `office_database`;
USE `office_database`;

--
-- Table structure for table `employee`
--
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `employee`;

CREATE TABLE `employee` (
  `id` int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `first_name` varchar(45) DEFAULT NULL,
  `last_name` varchar(45) DEFAULT NULL,
  `email` varchar(45) DEFAULT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB AUTO_INCREMENT=1 DEFAULT CHARSET=latin1;

--
-- Data for table `employee`
--
INSERT INTO `employee` VALUES
	(1,'Oluwafisayomi','Folaranmi','folaranmifisayo@gmail.com'),
	(2,'Emma','Baumgarten','emma@luv2code.com'),
	(3,'Avani','Gupta','avani@luv2code.com'),
	(4,'Yuri','Petrov','yuri@luv2code.com'),
	(5,'Juan','Vega','juan@luv2code.com'),
	(6,'Leslie','Andrews','leslie@luv2code.com');
```

This `employee.sql` file creates a new database table for us called `employee`, with four fields: `id`, `first_name`, `last_name` and `email`. 

Also, this script will actually load the table with sample data, just so we have some employees to work with to get started. 

And what we'll do is open this file in **MySQL Workbench**. So I have MySQL Workbench open. I'll go ahead and log into the **springstudent** account, using **springstudent** as password. Then I'll go through the necessary process to run the script. 

So, back to the SQL script; this is a very basic file. We have used the script to create the database, `employee_directory`. And then we move down or we drop a table if it already exists and we simply create the table, `employee`. 

And then for the `INSERT`, we will insert some sample data here for five employees, just so we can have some data to play with when we start out. 

## Set-Up Spring Project 

We will generate the Spring Boot project at the `start.spring.io` website. For the dependencies (which will provide the content for our Maven POM file). 

  1. So the one thing we'll need is **Web** because we're building a restful web application here. 
  2. We also need to make use of **JPA** because we're doing some database work with Hibernate and ORM. 
  3. Then we'll add in **Dev Tools** to give us that automatic reloading of our application during development. 
  4. And then finally, this one nice little thing here is that since we're using the MySQL Database, we can actually reference the actual **MySQL Driver**. 

And all of these selected dependencies will put in the appropriate entry into our POM file. This basically minimizes the amount of work we have to do inside of our POM file. And then we can review what's in there.

So that's a good start here of what we have for setting up our API. 
