# Spring Framework Overview

The official website for Spring is at `spring.io`. You can get all the documentation for spring, download Spring, look at some tutorials, and also getting-started guides.

## Goals of Spring

  + Lightweight development with Java POJOs (Plain Old Java Objects), make it much simpler to build as compared to the heavyweight EJBs from the early versions of J2EE. 

  + Promotes loose coupling by making use of dependency injection. So instead of hard wiring your objects together, you simply specify the wiring via configuration file or annotations. 

  + Minimizes boilerplate Java code. So in the early days of J2EE, there's a lot of code that you had to write. And so the folks at Spring, they created a collection of helper classes to make it easier. 


## The Anatomy of the Spring Framework

Now, this is kind of the big picture here of the core Spring framework. We'll go through these various sections here, and just give you a quick overview. 

### **The Core Container**

The **core container** is the heartthrob and the main item in Spring. 

It has a *bean factory* for creating the **beans**. So basically, it manages how beans are created. It basically can read **config files** for setting properties and dependencies. 

The **context** here is the Spring container that holds the beans in memory. 

And then as **SpEL** is for the **Spring Expression Language**. So, it's a little language we can use within the config files to refer to other beans, and we'll see examples of that later. 

So, these are the core containers for creating beans and then making those beans available. 

### **The Infrastructure Container**

So, let's move over to the **AOP** section. So, this is where you have support for **Aspect Oriented Programming**. 

So basically with AOP in a nutshell, it allows you to create these application wide services like: *logging*, *security*, *transactions*, *instrumentation*, and then you can apply these services to your objects in a declarative fashion. So, no need to modify your code to have support for this. You simply add a configuration in the config file or an annotation, and that service will be applied to your application. And, we'll see the examples of this primarily when we get into some transaction work, but some other areas, too, we'll play around with it a bit. 

Then moving down here, there's this other item here, **instrumentation**. So basically Spring has a lot of sophisticated fancy technology behind the scenes, and so here you can actually make use of class loader implementations to work with different app servers. For example, it can be used to create a Java agent so you can remotely monitor and instrument your application using JMX. As a developer, you wouldn't normally build an agent yourself, you would simply use the agents provided by the Spring team or your app server vendor. But the nice thing about it is to know that behind the scenes it's making use of some really cool technology, such as AOP code weaving by code manipulation, and so on. So that's what you get in the instrumentation model. 

### **The Data Access Layer**

So then moving forward here, let's take a look at the data access section or integration. 

So basically here, this is for like communicating with the database, either a relational database or a NoSQL database, and also making use of like a message queue. 

So in the top left, you have **JDBC**. Basically Spring provides some helper classes to make it much easier to access a database using JDBC. And by using these spring JDBC classes, you can actually reduce your source code by over 50%. So, a lot of good helper classes there. 

The next little bullet there is **ORM**, for Object to Relational Mapping. This is probably the most popular section of this module here. Basically, it allows you to hook into Hibernate or hook into JPA. So, a lot of support, and a lot of synergy between Spring and Hibernate.

**JMS** (Java Message Service) allows you to send messages to a message queue in an asynchronous fashion, that's a core part of Java EE. Here they basically provide helper classes to allow you to make use of the Java Message Service. And again, you can reduce your code by over 50% by making use of Spring's JMS integration. 

And then also Spring has support for a **transaction manager** (supporting transactions), and you can do this in a very lightweight fashion. So you can make use of transactions on methods, on database calls, and pretty much anything you want, it's very flexible. And a lot of other projects in the world or on the web make use of the Spring transaction manager. 

### **The Web Layer**

This is basically the home for the Spring MVC framework. All right, so you can build **web applications** using the Spring Core, and also making use of Spring Controllers and Spring View. So you have the full MVC layout here.

They also have other modules here where you can actually interface with other web technologies like maybe **JSF** (Struts). But pretty much, if you're using Spring already then it makes sense to use Spring MVC, no need to pull in any other APIs. 

They also have support for remoting here, so you can actually make use of **web remoting** (websocket) where you can have external clients make calls into the Spring container. Think of it as like a way of doing like remote procedure calls, or RPC or also doing distributed computing. So that's available also in this web module. 

### **The Test Layer**

Spring has support for test-driven development, so the framework includes mock objects for mocking out servlets, JNDI access, and so on. And you can do all of this outside of the container. You can also make use of integration tests by creating an application context and wiring up your desired objects. So testing is a first-class citizen here when making use of the Spring framework. So there's a lot of good support for it. 

This is a high level discussion of the Spring framework. We're going to move forward and focus on the Spring Core container. We'll also make use of the Spring Web for doing Spring MVC, and then we'll also make use of Spring Data Access and Integration, and the test layer. So those are the key items that we'll take a look at.
