# Spring Projects

## What are Spring "Projects"?

These are additional Spring *modules* that are built on top of the core framework, Spring Core. Think of them as simply add-ons (you only use what you need). In Spring, there are projects for: 

  + Spring Cloud, for doing cloud development 

  + Spring Data, data for database integration 

  + Spring Batch for creating batch processes 

  + Spring Security for securing your application. 

  + Spring Web Services for doing like RESTful and SOAP web services, and then also 

  + Spring LDAP for accessing LDAP servers, and more other projects. 

The Spring community, is very active and now they're creating all these additional projects that you can use in your application if needed. But the best place to get information on these projects is Spring's website, `spring.io`. 

So on `spring.io`, for the options on the menu bar, you can select the **Projects**, and then it'll give you some of the projects here that are available online. And each one of these projects are tabs here, you can simply click on it and go and get more details. But here they simply give you a nice little one line or two line blurb as far as what the project's about.

So anyway, there's a lot of good stuff out there. So if you have a lot of free time, you know, I'd say take a look at this and see what's going on. But again, a lot of good documentation out here and a lot of good examples. And each little tab here is kinda like a world in its own that you kind of enter and get into. So we could probably write a book on each one of these little tabs or write a course on each one of these little tabs. There's so much information out there. But anyways, I simply wanted to give you an overview and let you know that, hey these other projects are out there and available. You can visit Spring's website at **`spring.io`**, go to the Projects tab, and then you can just read up on each one of those projects and see if you could use them in your own project.
